In this project I made a vault system that allows the user to store items and messages in their own personal vault file that is encrypted by their own personal key. The encryption system was a module that I made myself. I have only used modules from python’s own libraries, and this was done mainly for safety because external libraries can be malicious.
The first thing I did to start this project was to make the encryption module that gets used throughout the script. For this module I imported the “random” and “string” libraries.  “string”  was used to create a list of every character that can be typed on the terminal in vs code, this includes “ “(spacebar)  character  and “\t “(tab) character since they are both valid characters that can typed in the terminal, I then used the “random.shuffle” function to shuffle the order of the list which basically makes an encryption key, whenever the user inputs a piece of text we can then find the index of every letter in the text with respect to the original chars list, after that we can use that index to find the corresponding character in the key list and encrypt the message.
The second step to making the vault system was to make a login and sign-up system that would store the login information of the user in a file. This system I believe is necessary as it is an easy and effective way of assigning individual users their own personal key that can later be used to encrypt the contents of the vault. I originally made it so that the sign-up function would store each user’s information in a csv file in the order of (username, password, key), where the password would be encrypted and comma would be the delimiter, however this would prove to be quite challenging. This is mainly because csv has certain characters that it treats as special such as quotation marks or whatever character you have set as the delimiter (comma in this case). This caused a major problem because the key that encryption module would produce included all those characters and because of that the csv writer would replace those characters with backslashes, causing the file to corrupt, and no matter what I tried to do to fix this problem it would not go away. So, to fix this problem I decided to use json instead of csv. This completely fixed the problem because json doesn’t have any characters that it considers as special, it just saves everything in the variable you assign it to.   
The last step was to make a vault system that creates a separate vault file for every user and stores the users’ “secrets” as encrypted strings. I made it so you can only access and create a vault after you login. The way the vault worked was buy fetching the users key from the login file and use that to encrypt their vault. This made it so that only the person logged in can see the contents of the vault only when the program is running and the files are basically unreadable otherwise. I finaly gave the vault a few functionalities like adding, viewing and removing items from it which was done with Json.
